Title: Common Chart

Aim: 2.1 Creating common visualizations (bar chart, line chart, scatter plot, area chart)
2.2 Assembling dashboard layout using dashboard filters.
Objective: To Create a Tableau dashboard by using various visualization techniques using
dashboard filters.

Theory:
2.1
Charts in Tableau help professionals to an exponential level in the field of business intelligence
and analytics. The real-time information can be directly represented using a wide variety of
readily available and user-readable charts. Implementing data-oriented charts or graphs in your
professional life can make result generation efficient for you. While charts are meant to
represent an extensive set of information into diagrams, graphs, or tables, a graph displays
mathematical relations between various data sets.

Tableau Charts List:
Bar Chart
Bar Charts are one of the standard methods of data visualization across all platforms. It is
meant to represent the data in the form of bars. The bar length is proportional to the value of the
variable. You can instantly highlight the difference between outliers, show trends, and categories.
Also, you can reveal historical lows and highs at a glance. Here we are displaying quantity of
Products by Category/Sub Category for the superstore dataset. The bar chart makes it easy to
differentiate between highest and lowest quantity of products. The height of the bars give a clear
representation for each product category.

Line Chart
Line Graphs, or Line Charts, are majorly used in combining individual points in a
comprehensive sequence. It helps connect a variety of data points to display them as one consistent
evolution. The result is a straightforward, simple way that visualizes changes in one value that is
relative to another.

Area Chart
Area chart helps represent quantitative data over a variety of periods. An area chart is almost the
same as a line chart. What makes them stand apart is the partitions that are done on the
basis of nations, regions, or categories in the area chart. Here we are displaying the sales for each
category of products (Furniture, Office Supplies, and Technology) by year of order date. Area
charthelps to understand the magnitude of sales.

Tree Map
A Tree map is used to demonstrate different parts of the data as they relate to the whole. Each
rectangle in a Tree map is divided into smaller rectangles based on its proportions to the whole
data like branches of a tree. So the total Tree map demonstrates the whole data while individual
rectangles show the sub-data in proportion to the whole. Here we are displaying the ship mode
and quantity of products segregated by region. There are 4 ship modes - Standard class, First
class, Second class and same day.

Scatter Plot
Scatter plots are used to understand the relationship between two variables in the data. You can
also find the outliers in your data or understand the overall distribution by plotting a Scatter plot.
If the data moves from lower left to upper right, there might be a positive correlation between
the two variables if the data move in the opposite direction, there might be a negative correlation.
Here we are displaying the count of orders and profit by city. The scatter plot shows profit and
count of orders on the same axis showing relationship between them country wise.

2.2 Assembling dashboard layout using dashboard filters
A dashboard is a collection of several views, letting you compare a variety of data
simultaneously. For example, if you have a set of views that you review every day, you can create
a dashboard that displays all the views at once, rather than navigate to separate worksheets. Like
worksheets, you access dashboards from tabs at the bottom of a workbook. Data in sheets and
dashboards is connected; when you modify a sheet, any dashboards containing it change, and
vice versa. Both sheets and dashboards update with the latest available data from the data source. 

Lab Outcome:
Create a Tableau dashboard by using various visualization charts.

Conclusion:
This lab effectively demonstrated the creation of common data visualizations and the assembly
of interactive dashboards with filters in Tableau. These skills enable users to explore an
communicate data insights, fostering data-driven decision-making. The focus on user-centric
design enhances the overall data analy