Title: Transform the data

Aim:
3.1 Data viz Best Practices
Draw a line chart which shows profit and sales by segment, state by quarterly and weekly. Calculate
the Actual cost with quick table calculation and visualize it with discount
3.2 Create tableau dashboard with simple calculations using table calculations.
Lab Objective:
To build data model and create simple calculations in Tableau Using table calculations.

Theory:
3.1
Introduction to Data model:
A data model is a conceptual representation of data and the relationships between different pieces
of data within a particular domain or system. It serves as a blueprint or framework for organizing,
structuring, and managing data in a consistent and meaningful way. Data models are fundamental
in database design, software development, and data management, as they help ensure data
accuracy, consistency, and integrity.

Relationship between data model
One- to- one relationship
A one-to-one (1:1) relationship is a type of association between two entities in a data model where
one record in one entity (table) is related to exactly one record in another entity, and vice other words, for every record in the first entity, there is a single corresponding record in the second entity, and there
are no duplicate relationships.

ne- to- many relationship
A one-to-many (1:N) relationship is a fundamental type of association in a data model where one
record in one entity (table) can be related to multiple records in another entity, but each record in the
second entity can be related to only one record in the first entity. It is one of the most common types
of relationships in database modeling.

Many-to-many relationship
A many-to-many (M:N) relationship is a type of association in a data model where multiple records
in one entity (table) can be related to multiple records in another entity, and vice versa. In this
relationship, there is no strict limit on the number of related records on either side. It is a common
type of relationship in database modeling and often requires an intermediary table to represent the
relationship.

Table calculation:
A table calculation is a transformation you apply to the values in a visualization. Table calculations
are a special type of calculated field that computes on the local data in Tableau. They are calculated
based on what is currently in the visualization and do not consider any measures or dimensions
that are filtered out of the visualization.

You can use table calculations for a variety of purposes, including:
Transforming values to rankings
Transforming values to show running totals
Transforming values to show percent of total
• Table (down)
Computes down the length of the table and restarts after every partition.
Table (across then down)
Computes across the length of the table, and then down the length of the table.
• Table (down then across)
Computes down the length of the table, and then across the length of the table.
Pane (down)
Computes down an entire pane
Pane (across then down)
Computes across an entire pane and then down the pane
Pane (down then across)
Computes down an entire pane and then across the pane.
Cell
Computes within a single cell.
Specific Dimensions
Computes only within the dimensions you specify


Lab Outcome:
Establish relationships between various data objects to build a data model and create table
calculated data fields to calculate data across or down the table/pane/cell.
Conclusion:
Thus we understood how to establish relationships between various data objects to build a data model
and create table-calculated data fields to calculate data across or down the table/pane/cell.
